INPUTFILE: SYNTAX
----------------------------------
Syntax is one function or setting per line.
Blank lines and comments (#) are ignored.


INPUTFILE: SETTINGS
Usage: set setfunction options
----------------------------------
set

	init FILE

The file for trajectory initialization. Must be at least
one frame and in .gro format. This setting must be the first
noncommented line in the input file.

	traj FILE

Set the trajectory file. This setting must
be the second non commented line. Only files in the
.gro and .trr format are supported at the moment.
Trr-trajectories are recommended for speed.

	cscale R

Specifies in which scale the coordinates are written in the input
trajectory.
Examples: .gro files: R=1.e-9 (nm)
          .trr-files: R=1.e-10 (Å)

	maxframes N

N number of frames to be processed. N=0 means that the
trajectory will be examined to get the number of frames
automatically. WARNING! For trr-files N=0 means that trajman
cycles through the whole trajectory file, which can take a
long time depending on the trajectory length.
Default "0".

	skipframes N

N number of frames will be skipped in the beginning of the trajectory.

	atomnames FILE

Custom unique atomnames for the trajectory. 
Names must be in the same order as in the trajectory file.

	atommasses [FILE]

Set default atommasses.
If FILE is specified, atommasses are set according
to that instead of the default values.

	whole

By setting this, molecules that have been broken due to
periodic boundary conditions, will be made whole again by 
folding atom coordinates back to the right side of the box.

	folding

If the center of mass of a molecule lies outside the box,
it will be folded back in by this setting.


	autofilename on,off

Set automatic filename creation for output files on or off.
Default "on".

	filename [FILENAME,off]

Set the filename explicitly to FILENAME (char). This setting 
will override autofilename. If filename and autofilename
are both set to off, output will be directed to STDOUT.
If used with autofilename set to 'on' the set filename will
be automatically suffixed with type of postcalculation.
See also fileprefix and filesuffix below.

	fileprefix [prefix_]
    
Custom prefix for filenames (char, can be a system path).
Default "auto_".

	filesuffix [.suffix]

Custom suffix for filenames (char). Default ".out".

    	distbin N

Set number of bins, N (int), used for distributions (rdf:s included).
Default "100".

	torsion_shift N

Modulo shift, N (int, degrees) for the torsion angle function.
Default 0: 0,360


    	cbl R

Set constant bondlength, R (real),
with same unit as the trajectory.

    	writeframe N [xyz,gro,apl]

Write frame N (int) to a file with name frameN.xyz in xyz format (default,
plottable by e.g. gOpenmol). If gro is added to the end of the
command, the output will be in .gro-format. If apl is used as format and
apl is set, area per lipid grid information is written (Voronoi like data).

    	calc [distrib,traj,acorr ... ]

Defines postprocessing of the calculated FUNCTIONS (see below).
distrib: writes distributions
distribm: writes distributions per molecule
traj: writes trajectories
trajm: writes trajectories per molecule
acorr: writes autocorrelations
acorrm: writes autocorrelations per molecule

    	submoltype NAME startatom endatom

Define a submolecule of an existing molecule, defined 
by the atoms between startatom and endatom.

	apl atom1 [atom2 ...]

Define the atoms used to calculate the area per lipid in a membrane.
The atoms may come from the same or different molecule types
(or from atoms defined in a submoltype).

	aplgrid x y

Define the grid size used in area per lipid calculations.

	leaflets

Define membrane leaflets to be able to separate calculations
based on which side of the membrane a molecule is situated.
Needs centerofmembrane and atommasses.

	rdf_binsize R

Define the binsize for rdf calculations. R is a real number
in Ångström.
Example: distbin=100, rdf_binsize=0.2 Å => cutoff=100x0.2 Å = 20 Å

INPUTFILE: DEFINITIONS
Usage: define options
----------------------------------
define
	atom NAME SUBMOLPROP SUBMOL

Define a new atom with name, NAME, from a property (SUBMOLPROP)
of a defined submolecule (SUBMOL). SUBMOLPROP can for now only
be set to 'com', which is the center of mass of the submolecule.

    	centerofmembrane molecule1 ...

Calculate center of membrane based on named molecules
separated by space (char)

	leaflet [both,upper,lower]

upper,lower: Following calculations will only be performed on 
	     the specified side of the bilayer.
       both: Default. Calculations are performed without leaflet separation.
Definition of leaflets is mandatory if you're doing area per lipid calculations.


INPUTFILE: FUNCTIONS
Usage: function options [tag]
----------------------------------
All functions can be tagged by a string at
the end of the line. Tags for the AL function MUST start with a %.
The tags are used by i.e. corr.

	DA Atom1 Atom2

Director angle: Angle between the vector Atom1-Atom2
against the director

	VA Atom1 Atom2 Atom3

Valence angle. First atom is the central atom.

	TA Atom1 Atom2 Atom3 Atom4
	
Torsion angle of atoms 1-4

	BL Atom1 Atom2

Bond length (or distance) between two atoms

	SV Atom1 Atom2

Order parameter

	MP Atom1

Distance of atom1 from the centerofmembrane

	corr tag1 tag2
	
Correlate two functions previously tagged by tag1 (str) and
tag2 (str)(corr needs to come after the two functions in the
input file). To get output other than a pearson coefficient
calc has to be set to distrib and/or distribm.

	DC Atom1 Atom2
	
Dipolecoupling of Atom1 and Atom2 (typically a C-H vector)

	X,Y,Z Atom1

Extract the X, Y or Z coordinates for selected atom.

	BX,BY,BZ

Extract the box X,Y or Z coordinates.

	average N
	
Calculate an average of the following N (int) functions
(e.g. averaging a CH3 group)

	combine N

Combine the data per molecule from N (int) functions into
one.

	AL atom1 [atom2 ...]

Calculate area per lipid for defined atoms.
If more than one atom is given, all additional atoms need to
belong to the same molecule type as the first.Needs setting apl
and leaflets, and usually a definition of the upper or lower leaflet
(define leaflet [upper,lower,both]).
Note that 'define leaflet both' does not calculate a proper area per lipid
on a bilayer. Use average or combine of upper and lower leaflets instead.

	boxapl moltype

Calculate the area per lipid as x*y/#moltype. No STD as for now... 

	rdf atom1 atom2

Calculate radial distribution functions between atom pairs. The cutoff distance is
determined by the number of bins (set distbin) and the rdf_binsize (set rdf_binsize).

	VS tag1 tag2

Function with tag "tag1" versus function with tag "tag2"
(the values of function1 is binned in function2).

	RC tagXa tagYa tagZa tagXb tagYb tagZb

Calculates the rotational correlation function for the vector (Xb,Yb,zb) - (Xa,Ya,Za). 
For now it calculates the correlation in the second order Legendre polynomial P2. 
Use the appropriate functions for extracting the component coordinates
(e.g. "X atomname tag") and use tags for the RC function. Make sure you set 'calc' to
'acorr' and/or 'acorrm' to get any output.


TRAJMAN DEFAULT FILES:

	atoms.xyz

This file contains atomnames and coordinates for each molecular type
defined in the trajectory.

	[fileprefix]averages[filesuffix]

FUNCTION averages and statistical data of the format:
 <index> <function definition> = <compact average> <average> <mean std> <std> [<dist. entropy> <mutual dist.entropy>]

